#separator:tab
#html:true
#tags column:3
State: Purpose of Health and Safety at Work Act	Provide guidance to employers and employees when working with computer systems and define actions employers should take to protect employees
Fill The Blank: Almost everyone has a ............. under the Health and Safety Act at Work to work and act safely	Duty
Fill The Blank: Employees must take reasonable ........... of their own and ........... safety under the Health and Safety at Work Act.	Care, Others
State: What the Health and Safety at Work act makes illegal	Act recklessly or intentionally act in such a way to endanger yourself or others
State: What the DSE regulations requires business/schools/colleges to do (four things)	Analyse Workstations and assess and reduce risks, Plan work so that there are breaks or changes of activity, Arrange and pay for eye tests and glasses (if needed), Provide health and safety information and training
Fill The Blank: Employers need to check that the computer equipment and .......... is ......... and any risks that are found have actions taken to fix them.	Area, Safe
State: What do employers and employees working from home have to complete	DSE workstation assessment
State: 3 examples of correct and safe arrangement of a workstation (related to posture/equipment positioning etc.)	Forearms are close to horizontal and hands in a straight line, Space in front of keyboard keyboard tilts mouse in suitable position, Chair is adjustable including the height and backrest
State: 3 minimum requirements for employers to ensure workstations comply to	Adjustable chairs and suitable lighting, Tilt and swivel monitors, Ensuring that the workstation has sufficient space for keyboard monitor and any paperwork
Fill The Blank: Employees should not be expected to work at a DSE ..... ........ and regular ................ or change in activity should be provided by an employer	All day, Breaks
State: 3 examples of what staring at working with DSE (Display Screen Equipment) can lead to over a long period of time	Tired eyes, Discomfort, Temporary short-sightedness, Headaches
State: 2 examples of responsibilities that lie with an employee	Check screen is well positioned and properly adjusted, Make sure lighting conditions are suitable, Take regular breaks from screen work
Fill The Blank: Employees of a business who work with DSE can ask for an employer to pay for ...... appointments and to ................ them	Eye, Arrange
Fill The Blank: Employers must provide ............. to make sure that employees know how to use ..................... correctly	Training, Equipment
State: 3 things that every general working environment should have/be	Have appropriate facilities (toilets washbasins drinking water place to rest/eat), Healthy working environment, Be a safe workplace
State: 3 examples of making a healthy working environment from HSE	Good ventilation, Reasonable working temperature, Lighting suitable for the work being carried out
State: 2 examples of making a safe workplace from HSE	Maintained buildings and work equipment, Floors and traffic routes kept free of obstructions
Define: HSE	Health and Safety Executive
State: 2 examples of areas a health and safety policy must cover	Statement of intent, Responsibilities for health and safety, Arrangements for health and safety
Fill The Blank: Any employee is responsible for reporting .................... as soon as possible to rectify the issue. If an issue is identified an employer may use a ................ ........... to tell other employees of the issue	Accidents, Warning sign
State: What DPA and GDPR aim to do	Control how personal data and information is used by organisations businesses and the UK Government as well as empower individuals to take control over their personal data
State: What DPA means in comparison to GDPR	DPA is the UK's implementation of the EU's General Data Protection Regulation after the UK left the EU
State: 4 purposes of the DPA 2018	Used fairly lawfully and transparently, Used for specified explicit purposes, Used in a way that is adequate relevant and limited to only what is necessary, Accurate and where necessary kept up to date
State: 4 purposes of the GDPR	Lawfulness fairness transparency, Purpose limitation, Data minimisation, Accuracy
State: 3 examples of characteristics DPA provides legal protection of	Race, Ethnic background, Political opinions, Religious beliefs, Trade union membership
Fill The Blank: Under DPA a data subject (User) has ......... such as being able to find out what ........... is being held about them	Rights, Data
State: 4 rights a data subject (user) has under DPA	Be informed about how the data is being used, Access personal data, Have incorrect data updated, Have data erased
Fill The Blank: DPA and GDPR both require ............... for a marketing .................. to be sent	Consent, Message
Fill The Blank: Consent must be ............ and ............. given, clear and specific.	Knowingly, Freely
Fill The Blank: Giving consent for marketing material must be ............. and therefore must be an .......-.... method and not in ......... and ...................	Clear, Opt-in, Terms, Conditions
Fill The Blank: It must be made easy to opt-out of marketing material such as '...............' at the bottom of an email because consent can be ................ at any time	Unsubscribe, Withdrawn
Fill The Blank: GDPR makes it clear that pre-.............. boxes are not valid ...............	Ticked, Consent
State: Higher Maximum penalty that can be issued by ICO	£17.5m or 4% of total annual worldwide turnover in preceding financial year (whichever is higher)
State: Standard penalty that can be issued by ICO	£8.7m or 2% of total annual worldwide turnover in preceding financial year (whichever is higher)
Fill The Blank: The original focus of the CMA was to ...................... the act of accessing or .................... data stored on a computer system without appropriate consent or ...................	Criminalise, Modifying, Permission
Fill The Blank: Over time where the use of computers and ways to access ......../systems has increased there has been many ..................... to the CMA	Data, Amendments
State: Why it is good that the CMA does not provide a definition of 'computers'	Because a definition could quickly become outdated because of constant evolution
State: 3 original sections of the CMA	Unauthorised access to computer material, Unauthorised access to computer materials with intent to commit a further crime, Unauthorised modification of data
State: What 2 sections were added to the CMA later in 2006 and 2015	Making supplying and obtaining any articles for use in a malicious act using a computer, Unauthorised acts causing or creating risk of serious damage
Define: Hacking	Finding weaknesses in an established system and exploiting them - a computer hacker finds weaknesses in a computer system
State: 3 examples of motivation for hackers	Profit, Protest, Challenge
Define: White hat hackers	Where hacker is given permission to hack into systems to identify any loopholes or vulnerabilities and tell the system owner. Because this is done with permission it is legal.
Define: Grey hat hackers	Where the hacker hacks into computer systems for fun or to troll but does not have malicious intent towards the computer systems - if they find a weakness they may offer to fix the vulnerability for a fee
Define: Black hat hackers	Where the hacker hacks into a computer system with malicious intent - stealing exploiting stolen or seen data or selling the data
Fill The Blank: British ............... suffered a hacking attack between ..................... and ......................... in 20.... which led to a data breach with ...... million customers affected - limited to the people who booked flights between these dates. This worked by redirected users to a ........... site to enter the card details which were stolen by the attacker	Airways, August, September, 18, Fake
State: The three categories which threats can be divided into	DDoS, Malware (including viruses), Social engineering
State: DDoS attack	Attempt to make a computer or network system unavailable to users by flooding it with network traffic. A DDoS is usually focused on preventing internet website or service from either functioning efficiently or at all.
State: Why adware is used and how it works	Generates revenue for its author. Any software package which automatically shows adverts such as a pop-up or may also be in the UI of a software package
State: Why bot/botnets are used and how they work	Bots take control of a computer system. Type of malware that allows a cyber-security attacker to take control of a computer system that has been infected without the user's knowledge and can result in a botnet which is an interconnected network of infected computer systems
State: Why bugs are used and how they work	Bugs are connected to software and are the flaws that produce an unwanted outcome. Usually result of human error during coding and can be fixed by the software creator issuing fixes or patches
State: Why ransomware is used and how it works	Holds a system captive and demands a ransom to release it. Restrict user access to the system by encrypting files or locking down the computer system. Can be spread by a worm and can be started by downloading an infected file
State: Why rootkits are used and how it works	Designed to remotely access or control a computer system without being detected by the security software or the users. When a rootkit has been installed it can enable an attacker to remotely access files
State: Why spyware is used and how it works	Collect data from an infected computer (inc. personal info from websites). Usually hidden from user and can be difficult to detect and could be keyloggers or install additional software
State: Why trojan horses are used and how they work	Standalone malicious program designed to give full control of an infected PC to another (attacker) PC. Often appear to be something which is wanted or needed by a user and can be hidden in valid programs and software
State: Why viruses are used and how they work	Virus attempts to make a computer system unreliable. Computer program that replicates itself and spreads from computer to computer
State: Why worms are used and how they work	Standalone computer program that replicates itself so it can spread to other computers. Worm can use a computer network to spread unlike a computer virus it does not need to attach itself to an existing program
State: Briefly, how to mitigate adware	Install run and keep updated a security software package, Do not open an files from an unknown source, Do not click any links in an email
State: Briefly, how to mitigate bot/botnet	Install run and keep updated a security software package, Do not open any files from an unknown source, Do not click any links in an email
State: Briefly, how to mitigate bugs	Check for and install any patches that are released from software vendors
State: Briefly, how to mitigate ransomware	Do not open any files from an unknown source, Do not click any links in an email, Install run and update security software
State: Briefly, how to mitigate rootkit	Rootkits are difficult to detect as they are not usually detected by security software. Software updates keeping security software up to date and not downloading suspicious files are the only ways of trying to avoid a rootkit from being installed
State: Briefly, how to mitigate spyware	Do not open any files from an unknown source, Do not click any links in an email, Install run and update security software
State: Briefly, how to mitigate trojan horses	Do not open any files from an unknown source, Do not click any links in an email, Install run and update security software
State: Briefly, how to mitigate viruses	Do not open any files from an unknown source, Do not click any links in an email, Install run and update security software
State: Briefly, how to mitigate worms	Do not open any files from an unknown source, Do not click any links in an email, Install run and update security software
State: Why baiting is used and how it works	Tries to trick the victims to give the cyber criminals the information they need. Very similar to phishing Criminal will make a promise of an item or goods to get the information they need
State: Why phishing is used and how it works	Tries to get users to input their security details or log-in details to a fake website. Uses a fake website which looks identical to the real one. Attackers send out emails or text messages which pretend to be from a reputable company
State: Why pharming is used and how it works	Tries to redirect users from a genuine website to a fake one - without the knowledge of the user. Very similar to phishing in that both use fraudulent websites
State: Why pretexting is used and how it works	When a cyber criminal lies to get data or information. Usually involves a scam where the criminal pretends to need the information to confirm the identity of the person they are talking to
State: Why quid pro quo is used and how it works	Tries to disable the anti-virus software so that software updates usually malware can be installed to gain access to a computer system. Similar to baiting but promise is that of a service rather than goods
State: Why scareware is used and how it works	Malicious computer program. Designed to trick a user into buying and downloading unnecessary and potentially dangerous software such as fake anti-virus protection
State: Why shoulder surfing is used and how it works	Aims to steal data and information. When a person's private and confidential information is seen - likely by standing close to someone while they enter their pin at a cash machine
State: Why smishing is used and how it works	Form of phishing and is fraudulent practice of sending text messages
State: Why tailgating/piggybacking is used and how it works	Used to try and gain access to a secure building or room. Takes form of someone who does not have authority to enter a building or room following someone who does through the doors
State: Why vishing is used and how it works	Making phone calls or leaving voice messages to try and trick the recipient. Calls and messages pretend to be from reputable companies to try and trick people into revealing personal information
State: What year the equality act became law in	2010
State: The aim of the equality act	The act provides a legal framework to protect the rights of individuals and advance equality of opportunity for all
State: What the act protects people from	Any form of discrimination in society and the workplace
State: 3 things that the equality act protects people against	Discrimination, Harassment, Victimisation
State: The 9 protected characteristics	Age, Disability, Gender Reassignment, Marriage and civil partnership, Pregnancy and maternity, Race, Religion or belief, Sex, Sexual Orientation
Define: Direct Discrimination in the equality act	Treating one person worse than another person because of a protected characteristic
Define: Indirect Discrimination in the equality act	When an organisation/someone puts a rule or policy in place that which has a worse impact on someone with a protected characteristic than without one
Define: Harassment in the equality act	People cannot treat you in a way that violates your dignity or creates a hostile degrading humiliating or offensive environment
Define: Victimisation	People cannot treat you unfairly if you are compliant of discrimination under the equality act or if you are supporting someone else who is doing so
Fill The Blank: There is some situations where it is acceptable to .............. against certain people if they ............. certain characteristics for a job role for example	Discriminate, Require
Fill The Blank: An individual should take action if they feel they have been .................... against	Discriminated
State: 2 examples of actions that can be taken when reporting discrimination	Complain to your employer either informally or using a formal grievance process, Ask for help and support - from a trade union or equality organisation etc., Begin employment tribunal proceedings
State: 2 examples of companies that can help if an action against discrimination is being considered	Professional bodies, Trade Unions, Citizens advice, Dedicated equality advisory support services (EASS)
State: The aim of the Intellectual Property Act 2014	Streamline simplify and strengthen design protection and patents
Fill The Blank: The level of protection from an ..................... design is lower than of a ..................... design	Unregistered, Registered
Fill The Blank: If a person commissions a design then the law states that unless otherwise stated in a contract the .............. owns the design - individuals only and not employees as the company will own any designs done while at work	Designer
Fill The Blank: The act cannot be retroactively applied to designs created .............. the act	Before
Fill The Blank: It is ............. to copy a UK or EU registered design if the design owner is not in ................. and the offender does not .......... the design is registered	Illegal, Agreement, Know
Define: Patent	Granted to give the owner of a design the legal right to stop others from making using or selling it for a specified number of years
Fill The Blank: Patents can be applied to all areas of technology as long as they are ........ involve an ............... step and can be applied to ...................	New, Inventive, Industry
Fill The Blank: Patents can be applied to most designs including .................. processes and ...................	Software, Hardware
Fill The Blank: Workplace monitoring enables an ................. to track employee ................ and then monitor employee ..................... with work-related tasks.	Employer, Activities, Engagement
State: 3 things an employer can measure about an employee	Productivity, Track attendance, Ensure security, Collect proof of hours worked
State: 2 ways employees can be monitored using electronic communications	Computer screens, Email, Internet and app use, Phone use
State: Telecommunications Regulations 2000 - what power does it give to employers	Allows employers to monitor employees without the employees having to give their consent first
Fill The Blank: Employers must clearly explain the amount of ................. in the staff handbook or ................ and possibly the AUP	Monitoring, Contract
State: 3 details that must be explained to an employee about how they are being monitored/what they can do	If/how they are being monitored, If personal emails and calls are not allowed, The acceptable number of personal of personal emails and phone calls
State: 3 reasons that an employer may want to monitor electronic communications	Identify criminal activity, Check that employees are working to necessary standards, Check that employees are following the correct procedures
State: 2 advantages to a business of using monitoring and monitoring software in the workplace	Employees can work flexible hours as monitoring can ensure all employees complete required tasks, Most productive employees can be identified and rewarded
State: 2 disadvantages to a business of using monitoring and monitoring software in the workplace	Employees can feel that they are not trusted and that the monitoring is an invasion of privacy, Employee morale may reduce due to continual monitoring and lack of trust
Fill The Blank: Although rarely legal in the UK, an employer may use ............... monitoring to (monitoring employees without telling them) using devices such as hidden .................... or ............... devices - Data protection laws make it legally rare unless when there is high suspicion of ............. activity	Secret, Cameras, Audio, Illegal
State: Key logging	Software that runs in the background of a digital system and records every key press and may also record every mouseclick - can record most information including screenshots and programs or apps open at any time
State: 4 monitoring systems that are used in the workplace	Key logging, Video/audio surveillance, Global Positioning System (GPS) vehicle tracking, Location tracking by access badge
Fill The Blank: Video and audio surveillance is usually done with ............. but should not be installed in areas where people expect ..............	CCTV, Privacy
State: 3 requirements of signs for showing the use of CCTV	Clear visible and readable, Show details of the purpose of the CCTV surveillance and who to contact, Include contact details (eg: web address email etc.)
State: Briefly, how GPS works	Uses network of satellites that continually transmit time and location messages. Device will use signals of four satellites to calculate its location. Accuracy within 5m with just satellite data
Fill The Blank: Employees often have access ................. that contain personal identification and allow them in and out of the workplace. Employees can be tracked wherever they are in the workplace based off of their access badge use but can be beneficial in an emergency such as a .........	Badges, Fire
Fill The Blank: Co-operation across country .................. must be maintained and there are many pieces of ........................ that cross country borders such as how some amendment of ..... laws have been made to bring them to UK legislation	Boundaries, Legislation, EU
State: 3 examples of international legislation relating to the use of digital systems	European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) - Article 8, Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA), Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing (CAN-SPAM)
Fill The Blank: When designing digital systems it is very important to consider the specific ........... legislation of the country or area in which a product will be used - because they tend to differ	Local
State: What ECHR (Article 8) is	Protects a person's rights to respect for their correspondence family life home and private life. Correspondence can be: emails letters phone calls. Means a digital system cannot be used to 'snoop' on anyone
Fill The Blank: There are ...................... to ECHR (Article ...) if there is a threat to national security or serious criminal activity suspected	Exceptions, 8
State: ECPA and how it could affect a UK company	Electronic Communications Privacy Act. US legislation which protects phone and electronic communications while those communications are being made are in transit and when they are stored on computers. Not relevant in the UK but could affect a UK company if they have a US Presence
State: CAN-SPAM	Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing. Bans incorrect deceptive or misleading subject information and lines. Requires that unsolicited commercial email is identified as an advertising email. Not relevant in the UK but could affect a UK company if they have a US Presence
State: 3 main professional bodies that are connected to digital professionals in the digital industry	British Computer Society (BCS), Institute of Analysts and Programmers (IAP), Association for Computer Machinery (ACM)
Fill The Blank: Professional bodies in digital have all made a .............. of ............... for their members.	Code, Conduct
State: Purpose and role of a code of conduct	Role: Provide a set of guidelines which members abide by. Purpose: Uphold the philosophy of the professional body
State: Who the British Computer Society represents	People working in IT and computer science
State: Who the Institute of Analysts and Programmers represents	Analysts and programmers
Fill The Blank: The Association of Computer Machinery represents a broad ............ of professionals	Range
State: 3 things, other than communities, that these professional bodies do	Training and qualifications to update member's skills, Updates in the advances in the digital industries, Range of resources that can be used by members to enhance their own knowledge
Define: Code of Conduct	A document which defines rules values ethical principles and vision
Fill The Blank: All professional bodies include a statement that their members must act in the ........... interest	Public
Define: Code of Practice	A code of conduct and standards of practice - practice standards employers' policies and procedures that must be met by employees
Fill The Blank: A code of conduct is a set of ......................... that sets out actions members are advised to follow. A code of practice makes these guidelines ................... and will usually cover ..................... too	Guidelines, Mandatory/Required, Legislation
State: 3 examples of areas covered by a code of practice	Professional Responsibilities, Contribution to society, Safety, Security and Privacy, Innovation
Fill The Blank: AN AUP is an .................. between employers and employees which sets down rules that a user must ............ to for access to a network, email facilities or the internet. An AUP may also set down guidelines as to how a ................ should be used.	Agreement, Agree, System
Fill The Blank: An AUP may be created to set down points that ................, ......................, employees and employers can adhere to and the AUP can be used where the rules included in the AUP have been breached where these breaches may lead to ................. action	Staff, Students, Disciplinary
State: 2 areas that may be covered in an AUP	What monitoring may be carried out by the employer in the workplace, Activities that are not allowed (eg: use of personal email), Non-acceptable use (eg: the internet email), Procedures for the use of systems and removable storage devices
Fill The Blank: An AUP must be tailored to the ............. and ......................... of the business which is creating it. ........................... may be used but should be adapted to meet the business' needs.	Needs, Requirements, Templates